# Redirect Link

A redirect link in Tracardi is used to track user clicks by redirecting them through a specified URL before they reach
their final destination. This mechanism helps in gathering valuable data about user interactions and link activities,
providing insights into user behavior and the effectiveness of marketing campaigns.

### Key Features of Redirect Links

1. **Tracking Clicks:** Redirect links track when a user clicks on a link by redirecting them through a URL managed by
   Tracardi.
2. **Event Data Collection:** When the user clicks the link, Tracardi receives an event with information about the
   click, including predefined event properties.
3. **Session and Profile Association:** Redirect links can include session IDs and other identifiers to associate the
   click with a specific user profile.

### Setting Up Redirect Links in Tracardi

To use redirect links for tracking clicks, follow these steps:

### Step 1: Define Redirect Links

1. **Create Redirect Link:**
    - Go to the Tracardi dashboard and navigate to the "Inbound Traffic" section.
    - Select "Event Source"
    - Create an Event Source that uses Redirect Link.
    - Select "Event Redirects" to create a new redirect link - select created Event source.

2. **Set Target URL:**
    - Define the URL to which users will be redirected after clicking the link. This is the target URL where
      you want to send your users.

3. **Define Event Properties:**
    - Specify any additional properties you want to capture with the event, such as the type of event, source, or other
      relevant data.

### Step 2: Generate the Redirect Link

Tracardi will generate a redirect link in the following format:

```plaintext
http://<tracardi-api-url>/redirect/<redirect-id>
```

- **`<tracardi-api-url>`:** The base URL of your Tracardi API server.
- **`<redirect-id>`:** A unique identifier for the redirect link generated by Tracardi.

### Step 3: Include Redirect Link in Campaigns

Use the generated redirect link in your marketing campaigns, such as emails, ads, or social media posts.

**Example:**

```html
<a href="http://your-tracardi-url/redirect/12345">Click here to learn more</a>
```

### Step 4: Track Events with Session Association (Optional)

To associate the click with a specific user session, you can include the session ID in the redirect link:

**Extended Link Format:**

```plaintext
http://<tracardi-api-url>/redirect/<redirect-id>/<session-id>
```

To obtain the session ID, use session@id. If you wish to send the redirect link via email, you can use Tracardi
template and access the session ID using {{session@id}}.

**Example:**

```html
<a href="http://your-tracardi-url/redirect/12345/67890">Click here to learn more</a>
```

- **`<session-id>`:** The session ID to associate with the click.

### Example Use Case

#### Email Campaign with Redirect Links

1. **Create Email Content:**
    - Include a redirect link in your email:
   ```html
   <a href="http://your-tracardi-url/redirect/12345/<last-user-session>">Get your discount</a>
   ```

2. **User Clicks Link:**
    - When a user clicks the link, they are redirected through the Tracardi URL, and the event is captured. Session is used to identify the user and connect the event with the user profile.

3. **Data Collection:**
    - Tracardi collects data about the click event, including any predefined event properties.

4. **Analyze Click Data:**
    - Use Tracardi’s analytics tools to review the collected data and gain insights into user interactions and campaign
      performance.




